---
layout: post
title:  "Collatz!"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---
# This week in OOP

I got my wish from last week to be able to dive in and play with C++ through this week's Collatz assignment. I even got to try out the standard library including the `vector`, `unordered_map`, and the very peculiar `std::array` that has a type defined by its size, so that to accept it in another function, you have to write:

```
void print(std::array<int, 100>& a1)
```

No dynamic sizing on this data structure!

In class, we mostly discussed the Collatz assignment.

# In my way right now

I spent way too much time trying to pass UVa's tests in under 0.000 seconds. I need to get on top of my algorithms, applied number theory, and competitive programming homework or I won't be ready for whatever project 2 in OOP brings. I also have no idea when I'm going to have time to prepare for open season on internships.

# Next week

I'll be getting back on top of my other classes. I'm also thinking of doing some of my competitive programming homework in C++.

# Overall thoughts

The readings for this week talked about how awesome Object-Oriented Programming is and how difficult it can be for those used to different paradigms to get used to it. For me, after taking Mike Scott for CS 314, it's the opposite: the only paradigm I understand (formally) is OOP. I look forward to understanding it better via this class, especially with larger-scale projects than CS 314, but I also hope we get some compare / contrast to the other hip paradigms like functional programming, as I understand C++ is one of the rare languages that can easily be functional, procedural, or object-oriented.

# Tip of the week

`!$` is the last keyword of the previous command in bash. Therefore, it's easy to do:

```
$ cat Collatz.c++
$ vim !$
```

which will open Collatz.c++ up in vim.

Or how about to see if you wrote enough words?

```
$ vim 2016-09-03-week2.md
$ wc -w !$
374 2016-09-03-week2.md
```

Also, `!!` is the entirety of the previous command in bash, so if you forget `sudo` in front of `apt-get install g++-5` you can just execute `sudo !!`.
