---
layout: post
title:  "References, Continued"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---
# This week in OOP

I had mentioned last week that I was struggling with understanding why one would use references above pointers when they seemed to function identically. Professor Downing spent this week giving some great examples of the pros/cons of each: how references make it less obvious to the caller that the state may be mutated but make it much easier on the called function to modify the data without accidentally forgetting to dereference a pointer. I still think I would prefer the explicitness of pointers, but then again, I never thought I would fall in love with Python and weak-typing as much as I have. It's easy to say that you'd prefer to manage memory and pointers yourself, but if you want to develop quickly, nothing beats banging out code without having to think too hard about the memory management on top of the algorithm design.

# In my way right now

Same crap as last week - notably, Applied Number Theory. I am thrilled when I understand 20% of a lecture. I'm still working to understand the sections on group theory from the textbook and have put off starting on the Netflix assignment - damn.

# Next week

I'm nervous about the upcoming week. I plan to pack my meals so I can eat quickly in between studying. Maybe I'll head home in the afternoons for a matcha pick-me-up. 

{% include image.html img="images/matcha.jpg" title="freshly whisked matcha" caption="Fresh whisked matcha to get through a Sunday afternoon" %}

# Tip of the week

Started failing your tests at some commit but not sure which one caused it? `git bisect` lets you conduct an efficient binary search of your commits, checking out each one until you isolate the one where you broke things.