---
layout: post
title:  "Darwin"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---
# This week in OOP

We got a brief overview of the Darwin project on Monday, which should be a fun, OOP-centric assignment. Pariveda gave a talk to us on Wednesday, which was really enjoyable. I think consulting has a lot of appeal to me, as I prefer to tinker with many technologies rather than become a specialist, but I got the feeling that Pariveda would not be the best cultural fit for me.

Registration was this week, and I enrolled in Behavioral Ethics with Landolt in hopes to implement a cool project for a non-profit next semester. Hopefully some non-profit that works with dogs :)

# In my way right now

Darwin is a sizable project. My original partner got sick (hope you feel better soon, Brenda!), so I've switched partners and we've gotten a decent plan whiteboarded so far. But it's not as streamlined a project as the previous ones, and it seems like there may be many devils in the details. 

I've also got an algorithms exam on Wednesday on the particularly poorly explained concepts of dynamic programming and max-flow. I need to do a lot of self-studying with the book and some recorded MOOC lectures.

# Next week

Hopefully acing that algorithms exam and turning in Darwin on time!

# Tip of the week

Did you know that some of our UTCS students (including me, once, and Eric Lee from our class) [write for the department's blog](https://login.cs.utexas.edu/blog/)? [Here's an IFTTT recipe I wrote](https://ifttt.com/recipes/480807-ut-computer-science-blog-posts) that will email you whenever someone publishes a new blog entry. And [here's my all-time favorite post](https://login.cs.utexas.edu/blog/summer-blues), written by Meghana Chappidi, about the psychological struggles of not getting an internship and facing the very tangible pressure in our field to have a sweet internship every summer.