---
layout: post
title:  "Dynamic Casting"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---
# This week in OOP

We discussed the extremely tricky `dynamic_cast`. It seems easy at first but is in fact very peculiar (which seems to be the norm for C++). `dynamic_cast`, unlike the other three casts available, is a runtime cast and has two cases that each have two subcases:

1. A cast to a pointer
* On error, gives `nullptr`
2. A cast to a reference
* On error, throws `bad_cast` exception

We also discussed how to make a polymorphic equals method by calling a virtual clone method from equals as well as the motivations for abstract classes and the differences between them in Java vs. C++.

Wednesday we had a visit from Spiceworks, which I interned at in the past if anyone has any questions.

# In my way right now

I'm good. Motivation about the approaching end of the semester is keeping me optimistic.

# Next week

I'm going to space out my homework nicely over Thanksgiving break to avoid becoming burnt out, but also avoid being unprepared for finals in the last week of class.

# A critique of the class

I would have loved to have a project that built upon a previous project that showed us how much good use of the SOLID principles makes software easier to modify in the future.

I would also love it if Professor Downing would give us more personal anecdotes from his experiences working.

Right now, we are told to never use getters and setters, but I don't feel like I have any firsthand experience with why (although we do have some readings on the matter). Seeing the benefits via a project plus hearing them from Professor Downing would really help these SOLID principles sink in.

# Tip of the week

Classmate Eric Lee mentioned there are websites that list hackathons and [Hackalist](https://www.hackalist.org/) seems to be a great one. Take a light-workload semester sometime and fly around the country for hackathons if that sounds like your cup of tea.