---
layout: post
title:  "Intricacies of C++"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---
# This week in OOP

We discussed how to build a polymorphic vector in C++. A C++ vector constructed of Objects `x` and some size `s` with parameters `s` and `y` does the following: 1) constructs an initial `x` object with the `y` parameter to the constructor, then 2) copy constructs the `x` object `s` times, then 3) destructs the initial `x` object that was used to fill the vector.

With that in mind, we can create a container class that holds a pointer and has a copy constructor that correctly, polymorphically copies the object to which the pointer points in order to fill an array with the same object with pointers to different objects.

We discussed the container class, but not the details of the copy constructor that correctly and polymorphically copies the underlying pointer (yet).

Wednesday was more straightforward; we began creating a Shapes class.

Friday I missed for a trip to New York City (**brrrrr**), but I gather thanks to my blogging classmates and my classmate Matthew that we discussed the `virtual` keyword required to allow polymorphic method calls, when initialization lists were required, and how method overriding works in C++.

# In my way right now

Need to start on the final project and make good progress with it this week. But there's not much other homework in my way, so that shouldn't be a problem.

# Next week

I'll finish up the final project :)

# Tip of the week

Once you begin working, don't be afraid to consider a lifestyle different than your parents. Try living without a car, depending on public transit and a bicycle instead - you might begin to see cars as an immense money sink and roads as wounds to your favorite city. Try never accruing debt, avoiding the dependency on employment and the self-inflected fears of job loss or being 'stuck' with a bad boss. Try working for 10 years and traveling for 5. If this speaks to you, listen to [this podcast](https://radicalpersonalfinance.com/episode3/) to hear about the philosophy of the financial independence / retire early movement.