---
layout: post
title:  "Designing a Vector"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---
# This week in OOP

It's starting to make sense why we covered arrays in such great detail last week, as this week we used an underlying array to implement a Vector this week. After taking CS 314 with Mike Scott, I feel very comfortable with these layers of abstractions - it's just learning these nuances of C++ that make it tricky. It's cool that, like Python, we can define defaulted parameters so that we only have to write a single constructor. We can also give a defaulted template parameter.

We also had a project, Allocator, which was good practice with pointers and references. It was a good time, and thankfully not exceedingly time consuming.

# In my way right now

Not too much! I actually turned in two old assignments for Applied Number Theory so I'm only one assignment behind now in all of my classes. This coming week might not feel like death for once.

# Next week

This past week I spent a few hours every night volunteering at Austin Animal Center (which I used to do last semester but ran out of time). Even though it takes up some seemingly valuable time, I always come back to work afterwards super motivated. I think I'm going to continue spending a lot of time at the shelter this week playing with puppies.

# Tip of the week

Cal Newport, a former PhD student and now professor, had a great blog about how to study to learn from school rather than memorize to pass tests. I recommend starting [here](http://calnewport.com/blog/2008/11/25/case-study-how-i-got-the-highest-grade-in-my-discrete-math-class/).