---
layout: post
title:  "References"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---
# This week in OOP

This week we focused on references in C++. The `&` sign is used for creating a C++ reference. Since this is a common sign in C, I was confused for a while why Professor Downing was covering it so extensively as I thought we were just reviewing C concepts. This really threw me off until my classmate Matthew explained to me that references don't exist in C, and I realized that I hadn't seen the ampersand on the left-hand side of an assignment before.

This naturally led me to wondering how assigning a reference was different than assigning a pointer to an address. Some reading on Google tends to imply they're nearly equivalent in most function, but references come with some additional protections to make life easier. Hopefully I'll understand the nuances a little better by the end of the course.

# In my way right now

Math courses, especially proof-based courses, make me feel very incompetent. I thought that after an intense inquiry-based learning Number Theory course, Applied Number Theory and Algorithms both would feel like refining a skill I already have. Unfortunately, I feel as lost as if I never took Number Theory. I need some help getting on top of these two classes, particularly Applied Number Theory, or I'm going not have enough time for all the commitments I've taken on this semester.

# Next week

I'll keep up with the readings, stay ahead on my other homework, and pair up with a classmate to get started on the new assignment.

# Tip of the week

Most Linux programs store their configurations in the `$HOME` directory in files called dotfiles. For example, most people use `bash` and thus will have a `.bashrc` file in `$HOME` to which they can add aliases such as `alias copy='xclip -selection'` so that output from the terminal can be piped straight to the computer's clipboard.

Setting up these configurations is awesome, but what if you move between a laptop, a desktop, and a UTCS machine? `stow` is an awesome tool that allows you to place these dotfiles in one directory so that you can initiate a git repo on it to store your dotfiles in the cloud.

You can see my dotfiles [here](https://github.com/jkdf2/dotfiles).