---
layout: post
title:  "Exams and Stuff"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---
# This week in OOP

We learned about the difference between:

* `const int*`

* `int* const`

* `const int* const`

The first points to a read-only value. The second is a pointer that cannot be re-pointed. The third is a pointer that cannot be re-pointed and points to a read-only value. Easy enough. Careful, though, as the `const` can be casted off to turn the read-only value into read-write if read-write is supported to by the pointed-to memory.

We also took the first exam! I was glad it was actual implementation, and not any of the "try to guess what this convoluted code does" stuff. I'm just a **little** nervous about the penalty for forgetting a `const` or something. I wish that I had had the interface for `RangeIterator` on my note-sheet, but am almost glad I didn't because it forced me to think through why I would return certain types instead of just regurgitating information. My grade may not thank me, though.

# In my way right now

Not much! This week let me get ahead on things.

# Next week

I just need to *stay* on top of things. This week was a relatively light workload, but next week brings new algorithm homework, perhaps a new OOP project, interviews, and so forth. I'm fairly confident I'll have enough time to avoid getting behind so long as by Sunday I am done with algorithms homework, OOP readings, my take-home Black Power Movement exam, and grading CS 314 quizzes. That will give me time to work on number theory and competitive programming throughout the rest of the week.

# Tip of the week

The [UTCS department has a Twitter](https://twitter.com/UTCompSci?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Eauthor). Connect their Twitter with [IFTTT](https://ifttt.com/) to get a text message so you always know exactly when there's a cool company and/or free food in GDC.

On the IFTTT note, I've also connected it with Craigslist to get a text message whenever a new road bike was listed to get a great deal on a road bike last year and then again for the summer (I actually resold the bike at the end of the summer for the same price that I paid for it), gotten alerts from SlickDeals to my email when there's a new deal on a laptop I'm interested in, and so forth. IFTTT is great.