---
layout: post
title:  "Includes and Assertions"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---
# This week in OOP

We studied library inclusion in comparison to Java and some unit testing tips revolving around the pitfalls of assertions. 

# In my way right now

Not a thing! I've set up my blog (testing out the capabilities of a generic Jekyll theme I've been slowly building called [pretty simple](https://github.com/pretty-simple/pretty-simple-theme)), got the textbook, and have the docker image running successfully.

# Next week

Getting into the readings and hopefully some coding in C++.

# Class takeaways

Libraries are always included when running Java programs - an import just makes it easier to access them with less typing. C++, on the other hand, requires an `include` statement to bundle the libraries, and the `using` keyword may be used to provide easier access to the objects.

Assertions work poorly for unit tests as they fail the entire program and prevent anything else from running. A unit testing framework overcomes this. Unit test with maximal coverage to increase your confidence in your code.

Learning C++ should be useful if I enjoy CS 104C - Competitive Programming, as C++ is the fastest common language used for programming competitions.

I enjoy that we have quizzes before class to reinforce the material, and I get a kick out of the students who are freaking out about Professor Downing's cold-calling. Experiencing cold-calling in this low stakes academic environment will make students better prepared for those future meetings when their manager suddenly decides to have them demo their work-in-progress project in the leadership team meeting 4 hours later.

# Pick of the week

I enjoy contributing to [Signal](https://github.com/WhisperSystems/Signal-Android) by OpenWhisperSystems, an encrypted SMS service that pays in Bitcoin for successfully merged Pull Requests. I've only merged one successful contribution, but have started on a few others. I just wish I had an Android expert on hand to teach me how to be familiar with navigating a large Android codebase, as it can take me 10-20 hours just to track down where I **think** a bug arises only to find out that I'm mistaken.