---
layout: post
title:  "4 projects down, 1 to go"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---
# This week in OOP

This was a really awesome week of learning C++ concepts! Monday and Wednesday we discussed `move`, so that we could gut another object and steal its data for our new object, whether we were reassigning to this old object or constructing from it. 

I would really like to see some real-world results of when you would use move constructors and move assignment operators, and also how much of an efficiency improvement occurred from this speedup after the introduction of it in C++11. If anyone knows any blogs on this topic, I'd love to read them.

Friday we discussed local, class, and global variables as well as their `static` alternatives. Professor Downing explained it very well, much better than the confusing explanations I've come across online when trying to figure it out myself. All of it makes very logical sense, except perhaps that `global static` means file-scope.

I also finished Darwin with my partner, George. It was a really enjoyable application of the SOLID concepts we've been reading, and I enjoyed creating a UML diagram which was much less complicated than it seems at first. We modeled our implementation off of PintOS (or general OS concepts) and had a lot of fun with it.

# In my way right now

I feel like I'm starting to get confused between all of the programming languages I'm working in right now, between competitive programming in Python, OOP in C++, and TA'ing Data Structures in Java. At yesterday's programming competition, I struggled for like 30 seconds to remember that initializing an object in Python was like:

```
node = Node(2)
```

and not:
```
Node node(2)
```

I'm definitely planning to do all of my competitive programming in C++ when we get near the OOP final so I don't get confused.

# Next week

I finally had a first round interview go well. Although my confidence is still pretty shot, I'm flying to NYC on Thursday to interview with Etsy, so I'll have to get notes on Friday's class from someone else.

# Tip of the week

I notice a lot of my fellow students are, like me, blogging about the stresses of this semester. Let's all take it a little easier on ourselves next semester. If this semester was too rough, take a lighter workload next semester, even if that means (*gasp*) postponing graduation by a semester. The main reason for dreading graduating a semester late is financial, but I strongly believe that is negated by the extra focus you have per semester to get better grades, leading to scholarships, and the extra time you have to hunt for better, higher-paying internships and full-time careers. Plus, mental and physical health is priceless, both of which you can improve when you have time to relax, stay physically active, cook for yourself, and volunteer in the community.

Here's an awesome blog post by Cal Newport arguing [that no one cares how many credit hours you take, and that deferring happiness can become an infinite cycle](http://calnewport.com/blog/2010/09/27/how-double-majors-can-ruin-your-life-two-arguments-for-doing-less/). My favorite quote, "doing less is not just about impressing employers, or avoiding a sophomore slump, it can be the foundation of a life well-lived."