---
layout: post
title:  "Arrays, arrays, more arrays"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---
# This week in OOP

We discussed arrays at great length. We finally touched on the heap.

Here's a declaration of an array on the stack:

`int myarray[100]`

Versus on the heap:

```
int* const myarray = new int[100]
delete [] myarray
```

The `const` helps you avoid pointing away from the array and causing a memory leak or losing your mind when you call `delete` and something weird happens.

Another 'gotcha' is polymorphism. An array of objects with subclass objects inside iterates based on the size of the parent object, so don't try to use arrays in a polymorphic manner.

# In my way right now

Discouragement. I've done many internship applications, a few interviews, and I've gotten more rejections than I've gotten interviews. Considering I'm graduating December 2017, I would really like to have an internship with a company I would realistically want to go on full-time with, so since I'm only interviewing with companies I really like, rejections are harder than usual. But it's a numbers game, like finding a significant other - seems like it's going nowhere until you suddenly meet the one. Plus, it's only October, and I should be counting my blessings for being able to attend an outstanding computer science department and to have a wealth of alternative opportunities should I not find a good internship fit.

# Next week

Big (and only) Applied Number Theory exam. RSA, Elgemal encryption, Diffie-Hellman key exchange? By Tuesday, I should be able to describe these to my grandma.

# Tip of the week

Anyone remotely involved in technology should learn about *USB Type C*. Imagine a future where you have one cable with the same connector on each end. A laptop where every. single. port is the same. The video out, charging port, 'random device' port -- all of them indistinguishable from one another. This is the benefit of the USB Type C connector (especially when combined with USB 3.1 and Thunderbolt protocols for high data and power throughput). You can go everywhere with only one cable for all of your devices (or multiples of the same cable) or borrow from a friend, since they'll all have the same connectors also. 

Other than uniformity, there are also some cool new ways it's being used. For example, I can connect one end of my cable to my Nexus 6P and the other end to a second Nexus 6P and one phone can charge the other. Another use? Hooking up an external, bulky, gaming graphics card to a laptop with the same speeds as PCI-express to [game on the laptop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BOFZGCwoRmo) instead of needing a dedicated gaming PC.

Prices are coming down quickly. Modern smartphones now have this port as well as mid- to high-range laptops with mainstream adoption expected for the next generation of laptops. Get ready for glorious cable simplicity :)