---
layout: post
title:  "Generators"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---

# This past week

We got a good overview about how to structure our dynamic React-based front end and our Python-based back end on Monday. I think this would have been more valuable to have at the beginning of the project though!

Wednesday and Friday we got into iterators more, comprehensions, and writing our own generators with yield statements. Of note, a generator made with parentheses like `(x for x in l if x != 0 else -2)` is called a generator expression, whereas a function made with yield statements is a generator function.

# In my way right now

I got a D on my first Graphics project and, based on that grading criteria, project 2 will be even worse. However, Dr. Abraham said she won't let anyone who is putting forth 100% effort fail, so I'm going to mute Canvas for that class and keep on doing the best I can with my partner. Graphics is hard, and time consuming.

# Next week

Looking forward to knocking out the Thursday evening exam and having Friday off. Woo! I am hoping that the exam will be 100% programming like in OOP, and not trivia, but looks like we won't find out until Wednesday. Either way, the material we have learned so far has been very straightforward, much more so than C++.

# Class takeaways

I'm excited to talk in more detail about generators and `yield` statements, as I haven't really used them since I learned about them the first time several years ago. I hope we will explore them in more detail and get more motivation about real-world use cases.

# Pick of the week: type system categorizations

The ability to share your salary is a legal right under the National Labor Relations Act. Sharing your full time offer salary ranges can be a great way to understand the market and also understand [that some people negotiate up to $220k or more](https://haseebq.com/farewell-app-academy-hello-airbnb-part-ii/). For more information about the legality, check out [Your Coworkers Should Know Your Salary](https://hbr.org/ideacast/2016/03/your-coworkers-should-know-your-salary). The worst (or is it best?) that can happen from sharing your salary while working is that you get wrongfully terminated and get a sweet settlement.