---
layout: post
title:  "Regular Expressions"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---

# This past week

We finished up SQL with a few more tricky queries on Monday. Wednesday, we got to play with some regular expressions, noting that `*` is zero or more, `+` is one or more, `?` is zero or one, `^` is the start of a string, `$` is the end of a string, and `[^c]` is **not** `c`. Friday, we reviewed our websites with the TAs directly and I took particular pride in a comment that our site seemed very responsive when navigating.

# In my way right now

Working on the SWE front-end and a Graphics project that will definitely not be finished by its due date on Wednesday. Oh well, I'm graduating regardless of my Graphics grade (RIP)

# Next week

Just going to keep working on the SWE front-end during free moments.

# Class takeaways

I am really mad about the quiz on Friday, which I would have gotten right but I did not realize which group was being printed out. This is definitely partially my fault for reading quickly (but you have to work quickly on these timed quizzes!), but I also think it would have been a more straightforward question if it was formatted as:

```
GROUP_INDEX = 3
s = "bxyab\naabxy123"
m = re.search("(a+)b([^a]*)(a+)b", s)
print("[" + m.group(GROUP_INDEX) + "]")
```

# Tip of the week: Waitlists

Note that you can waitlist for a time-conflicted class by adding the conflicting class as your swap class, but **then** reset the swap class to None. Then, if you get close to being put into the course, the registrar will send you a warning email that you need to set up your swap classes.

This is handy because you have 4 waitlist slots, so you might as well fill them up just in case you change your mind down the road because of something you hear about a professor or if your interests change.