---
layout: post
title:  "Advanced SQL"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---

# This past week

In class we got into more advanced SQL queries including things like comparing min / max / averages of GPAs from a table and creating temporary tables to do certain operations. This was a bit hard to follow in class, so I know I'll be needing to download and play with the queries myself.

In the group project space, we wrapped up Project 4 without last minute stress thanks to everyone starting nice and early, and also for my teammates finding a great balance between specialization and helping out where they could. For example, one of my teammates got our new back-end features working in the first few days so I could work on pagination immediately, another teammate specialized on DevOps and got Travis to deploy both our front-end and back-end automatically (godsend), and another teammate jumped over to front-end to help out in the last few days. I could not ask for a better team.

# In my way right now

I whimsically booked a flight to Mexico for Thanksgiving so I'm extra tired from some travel vaccines. I'm still taking the typhoid oral vaccine into next week and hoping that it doesn't compromise my immune system too much considering it's cold season.

# Next week

My main focus this weekend is on getting a backpack and some lightweight, quick-dry clothing so I can stay comfortably in hostels, and with my travel prep out of the way, I hope to contribute next week to my various group projects that are all trying to wrap up before Thanksgiving break.

# Class takeaways

These SQL queries are fun. I just definitely need to practice outside of class.

# Tip of the week: Volunteer Opportunities

The dead days are one of my favorite times of year because of the really awesome volunteer opportunities available during this time!

One of my favorites is to [volunteer with Austin's gorgeous Trail of Lights](https://austintrailoflights.org/volunteer). There's no better break from studying than being out in the starry, brisk night watching kids and adults alike vibrate with holiday spirit.

Another great opportunity is Hour of Code, where you go to a local elementary, middle, or high school and teach or assist with the teaching of a small programming lesson. It's a great time to meet other UTCS students that you might not have otherwise met and see some children's eyes light up with that 'got it' moment that comes with learning programming. You can [sign up here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSec5j3tPCHTbwedSIj4XUuzla8Yp1r2LIJ0cwZdmpKVlylWJw/viewform).