---
layout: post
title:  "Chilling in the First Week"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---

# Class expectations

I am already extremely comfortable in Python and all of the tools we will be using this semester, so I am just hoping to add hours to that "X hours until you are a coding master" cliche. Practice makes perfect. Or, perfect practice makes perfect. Or whatever.

# This week

SWE's first week has been identical to OOP's first week. I've mostly been making my study spaces super comfortable by adding anchors to my walls for indoor hammock mounting.

{% include image.html img="images/indoor_hammocks.jpg" title="Hammocks hanging inside" caption="Taking interviews and studying has never been more chill" %}

{% include image.html img="images/d-ring_anchor.jpg" title="A D-ring anchor point mounted on a stud" caption="Easy to do with $5 of materials from Home Depot" %}

# In my way right now

I want to work more on my Reddit bots instead of class work, but probably mostly because there's no class work yet.

# Next week

Anticipating another easy week until team projects start picking up.

# Class takeaways

Nothing so far.

# Pick of the week

JavaScript ES6 is pretty great to work with - almost synonymous with Python in simplicity and features. Make it even more fun by adding [prettier](https://github.com/prettier/prettier) to your project, which takes in your code and then overwrites it with the same code in a consistent format including spacing, object declaration structure, etc. It makes working on a team project in JavaScript a total joy.

I would love to see a prettier for Python, but AFAIK one does not yet exist.