---
layout: post
title:  "refactoring"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---

# This past week

We talked about static and dynamic methods as well as dynamic binding on classes, except in the cases where it can optimize: static methods, final methods, and private methods.

We also discussed using reflection in Java, quite messily, to get rid of a switch statement. I was really excited to figure out how we would refactor out the switch statement, and I'm not sure if I am necessarily pleased upon seeing the result, ha!

The week had a nice interlude on Wednesday when Cline and Rich dropped in to give a presentation on Ethics, which was a nice refresher from my Behavioral Ethics class.

# In my way right now

I'm really glad Professor Downing pushed the A4 due date back after Thanksgiving, because I have been dying over graphics all week. I leave for Mexico on Tuesday morning, but hopefully I can do a little refactoring and testing both this weekend and the next.

# Next week

Leaving my laptop behind and heading for Mexico.

# Class takeaways

Someone in class Friday asked a question about "Isn't this the same thing we discussed in class earlier this week and the results are different this time?"

I think this question supports something I would like to see Professor Downing do: give a little bit of motivation and/or 'this is what we're going to learn today' style explanations every class. Having a little bit of motivation makes it easier to follow along, and I think learning should feel like a natural progression rather than random bits of trivia.

I am sure Professor Downing has a 'table of contents' for the course, and it would be nice to just share that idea with the students.

# Tip of the week: Free Public Transport

With the UT ID giving you free bus access, you should definitely take advantage of free rides to beautiful places like Walnut Creek Park, Chinatown Center, etc. Check out a MetroRapid line if you want a really comfy ride with WiFi, and get some homework done on the 30 minute ride to Chinatown or the Domain.