---
layout: post
title:  "kwargs"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---

# This past week

We started off this week with an outline of `*` and `**` in function calls and function definitions. I actually hadn't learned these in detail before so it was nice to learn something new. As usual with Python, it was refreshingly straightforward: `*` as a call will unpack a tuple, `*` on the receiving end will pack the extra args into a tuple, and `**` does the same thing but with dicts.

Then we took an exam on Thursday which was straightforward except, as usual, the Canvas portion was over minute trivia. Having HackerRank to code and know your success was extremely useful, although the assertions did not test all of the preconditions (e.g. 'assume that the iterable is not indexable') but the nice thing about HackerRank is you could add your own assertions / test cases.

# In my way right now

Drowning in Graphics work as usual.

# Next week

I need to set aside some time every day to work on the next stage of the project.

# Class takeaways

I can't think of how `*args` and `**kwargs` would have been useful for me in past projects. Perhaps some real-world examples of 'this is how you might want to use `*args` and `**kwargs` when making RESTful methods' would be enlightening.

# Tip of the week: Mindfulness

Do you want to have more focus, less stress, an improved and more accurate self-image, and more self-awareness? I would highly recommend taking Dr. Kristin Neff's EDP class on mindfulness and self-compassion. She is a famous speaker with a [TED Talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IvtZBUSplr4) and [workshops around the world](http://self-compassion.org/events/category/short-workshops/). Taking her class is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity and, especially as programmers, we can use any techniques that can hone in and take care of our minds.

Another awesome option is any course taught by TJ Garza which counts for the foreign language and culture credit and includes awesome courses like: Vampires, Russian Fairy Tales, and Maledicta (study of bad language).

If you have taken a life-changing or perspective-enhancing course at UT, please leave a comment on Piazza :)