---
layout: post
title:  "Select, Project, Join"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---

# This past week

By using lists of dicts, we have gained a solid understanding of select, project, and joins in relational algebra.

Select takes a subset of the rows; project, the columns.

Cross-joins join all rows in one table with every row in the other; theta-join does the same but only when the rows' attributes fulfill a binary predicate; natural join does the same as theta, but fills in the binary predicate with a check that attributes which match also have matching values.

If my terminology above is incorrect, please correct me.

# In my way right now

Things are straightforward at the moment, just busy.

# Next week

Gotta work on that IDB2 and turn it in!

# Class takeaways

I have really enjoyed understanding SQL through implementation.

I wish the reading order was modified slightly so that we were reading the refactoring the last few weeks when we were programming in Python, and reading about SQL this week when we are learning SQL in class.

# Tip of the week: Tea > Coffee

Have you ever felt jittery, irritable, or completely unfocused after a cup of coffee? Caffeine is a powerful study drug, but it also comes with a host of negative side effects.

High quality, loose leaf tea actually has two chemicals that assist with studying and programming: caffeine (at a lower, gentler dose than coffee), and L-Theanine, a stress-reducing chemical that promotes relaxation but without sedation. The caffeine and L-Theanine balance each other out quite perfectly; in fact, so well that they are often taken together as supplements in the nootropics ("cognitive enhancers") community.

But, why take the supplements as a pill when loose leaf tea is such a joy to drink? Check out this [Serious Eats guide to getting seriously into tea](https://www.seriouseats.com/2015/01/tea-for-everyone.html), and if you decide you are interested in the intriguing culture and benefits of tea, grab some good tea from [/r/tea's favorite vendors](https://www.reddit.com/r/tea/wiki/vendors/page_01) (or hit me up to share a cup after class).

{% include image.html img="images/tea.jpg" title="Tea" caption="Some delicious loose leaf tea" %}