---
layout: post
title:  "Three down"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---

# This past week

Wrapped up Collatz which was much nicer in Python than in C++. We learned about exceptions and Python data structures which, in their absurd simplicity, I absolutely love. In my day-to-day coding at work, I have only ever had a need for lists, sets, and dicts as well as the very handy namedtuple from the `collections` library, which also provides some handy datatypes for competitive programming and interviewing.

# In my way right now

I foresee nothing getting in my way; busy with Graphics and flying out for an interview with Dante in Washington DC in the coming week, but as long as I rest appropriately, I am not worried about it being too stressful.

# Next week

Just need to take care of myself and sleep right to avoid stressing over the future. Working on staying in the moment and taking things day-by-day.

# Class takeaways

I haven't learned too much new about Python yet. We covered exceptions, which are fairly straightforward, and try, except, else, and finally keywords. We explored 'else' as basically on 'onSuccess' function used after loops to do some task. I've been aware of this functionality since I learned Python, but have yet to have a particular use case for it.

We finished up with some more basics such as the different equality operators `==` vs `is` and the time complexity of Python data structures.

# Pick of the week

Seek out opportunities outside of the big, lauded tech companies and you might find work that is more engaging, interesting, and meaningful.