---
layout: post
title:  "SQL everything"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---

# This past week

On Monday, we discussed context managers, which implement an `__init__`, `__enter__`, and `__exit__` magic methods to do cleanup without an explicit `try` and `finally` block. 

Wednesday and Friday we saw some examples of real SQL join operations in action.

During that time, we wrapped up Project 3, the second part of the IDB project where we catalog music by tracks, albums, artists, and playlists. My group divided into roles and I took the front-end, creating some pretty Grids of Cards and connecting to the back-end with the Axios JavaScript library. I really missed JavaScript ES6 and React so it was fun to dig back in.

# In my way right now

Just the supposedly hardest Graphics project of the semester, RIP.

# Next week

I hope to keep working on the front-end, abstracting a bit more to make the pagination and other IDB3 features a little easier so that the same code does not have to be duplicated across our four models.

# Class takeaways

The class projects are remarkably similar to the modern web technology software development I've seen in work and on-site interviews, except with added stressors of juggling other class commitments and people's disparate schedules. If you think this stuff would be fun if you could take away all of the school-induced hassle, look for a modern startup or a consulting company.

# Tip of the week: Premature Abstraction is the Root of All Evil

Have you ever thought about starting a school or side project and just planned, planned, and planned without getting anywhere?

My mentor who taught us React Native this summer also shared a programming mindset with us. Although I cannot remember the term, it's basically this: write something (such as a React component) concretely the first time. The second time you write the exact same pattern, write it a little better. The third or fourth time you write the same pattern, abstract it into a component that can be re-used across all of the parts you made the pattern.

This mindset prevents you from getting stuck in the planning stages, trying to make the most general solution possible, which usually takes forever and even then requires significant overhauls down the line when you realize that the real-world use case differs from your ideal solution that you created when brainstorming. If, instead, you write it concretely several times, cleaning it up along the way, you will have created a piece of code that is real-world tested and ready to be abstracted and re-used as is! *Viola*!