---
layout: post
title:  "React"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---

# This past week

I worked extensively in React Native all summer long and several other members of my group seem to already be familiar with React or at least are picking up on it quickly. Therefore, without a line of Python, we built and turned in [hackappellas.me](https://hackappellas.me/) written entirely in React with an `Express.js` server which made it much easier to deploy on App Engine than a mixed environment. I owe my team some relief later in the semester when they have conflicts, because I was caught up in Graphics and a sleep apnea study on several of the days this week.

We also studied iterables and data types in Python extensively in class. I know many of the methods we discussed as "magic methods" in Python, such as how "dunder next" (`__next__`) defines the `next(p)` for `p` an iterable.

# In my way right now

I really need to stop arriving to class late and flustered and then flubbing questions that I actually know the answer to on the quiz. Step 1 to recovery was replacing my front tire inner tube after I overtightened the threaded Presta valve and ripped the rubber. Step 2 is to make the rain go away so I can bike to campus, which is firmly outside my hands.

Also, Google App Engine freaking sucks. Who waits >1 minute to deploy these days, let alone up to several hours with absolutely no feedback beyond a spinning bar? I haven't used a lot of deploy tools, but at least between Heroku and App Engine, I would prefer Heroku in a heartbeat. Even hosting on my Raspberry Pi would have been easier.

# Next week

Another Graphics project due date. Fortunately my partner seems to understand what we are doing conceptually better than I do right now, so hopefully we will survive.

# Class takeaways

Deployment can be hell. Python and JavaScript ES6 are pretty awesome and straightforward.

# Pick of the week

Although really obnoxious students like to throw out terms like dynamic vs static and strong vs weak typing in CS314 to sound like they know everything, it can actually be really helpful to learn and understand these terms and typing system your preferred programming language uses.

I only recently formally learned the ramifications of Python being both dynamically and strongly typed: let's say you have a programming challenge that requires you to calculate some complicated number and append it to a string you are given in the beginning. No problem, `return original_string + " " + my_calculation`, right? No! Because Python is strongly typed, `my_calculation` is an `int` and `str + int` does not work! So instead, you need `return original_string + " " + str(my_calculation)` to explicitly turn the number into a string.

Practically, this means that in Python, although you do not have to say 'oh, this is an `int` and this is a `list`' when declaring variables, you still have to keep all of these types in your head to avoid illegal operations! Whereas in JavaScript, which is dynamically but **weakly** typed, you could have simply done your `return original_string + my_calculation` and called it a day (and I am not trying to debate which is better pls and thank you).

These categorizations are not as intimidating as they sound (or at least as they sounded to me when peers would battle to the death in the hallways about the best typing system), and knowing them can really help you pick up a language quickly as well as avoid common mistakes in an interview or time-pressured programming challenge!