---
layout: post
title:  "Groupwork has begun"
categories: [Weekly Entries]
tags: []
---

# This past week

On Monday, we had a talk from a Google Cloud Platform engineer. Not the most engaging speaker, nor the most relatable explanation of the technologies. Explaining scale seems to be a talent on its own, as the only speaker I remember explaining scale particularly well was by Reddit's prior CTO Marty Weiner last semester. Later this week, I got an awesome description of serverless architecture utilizing AWS' offerings by the employees of Dante Consulting at my interview Friday.

Wednesday we discussed our projects in great detail. First step is a static site, which will be quite a task by this Thursday as design is such a critical step! I am used to projects that begin with mockups, but we will probably be doing an iterative design through this project simply due to lack of time.

I missed Friday due to my interview in DC, but helpful classmates have caught me up that the most of the discussion was about `+` and `+=` operators with mutable and immutable data structures in Python.

# In my way right now

Just working on finishing up a Graphics project that's due Monday.

# Next week

Continue working on everything.

# Class takeaways

So far still waiting to learn something new about Python but I am excited to be building a full project as I have worked with all of these technologies yet never integrated them together.

# Pick of the week

All you need to back up in order to transfer your Sublime configuration to another computer is your `Package Control.sublime-settings` and `Preferences.sublime-settings`. Just find out where those are stored and move them to the new computer to never have to reconfigure Sublime from a fresh install again :)